# Cybersecurity Incident Report

| Section 1: Identify the type of attack that may have caused this network interruption

#### One potential explanation for the website's connection timeout error message is:

- The web server appears to be overwhelmed by the volume of incoming traffic.

#### The logs show that:

- A large TCO Syn requests coming from unfamiliar IP address.

#### This event could be:

- Syn attack by a malicious actor.

| Section 2: Explain how the attack is causing the website to malfunction

#### When website visitors try to establish a connection with the web server, a three-way handshake occurs using the TCP protocol. Explain the three steps of the handshake:

1.  The \[SYN\] packet is the initial request from an employee visitor trying to connect to a web page hosted on the web server. SYN stands for “synchronize.”
2.  The \[SYN, ACK\] packet is the web server’s response to the visitor’s request agreeing to the connection. The server will reserve system resources for the final step of the handshake. SYN, ACK stands for “synchronize acknowledge.”
3.  The \[ACK\] packet is the visitor’s machine acknowledging the permission to connect. This is the final step required to make a successful TCP connection. ACK stands for “acknowledge.”

#### Explain what happens when a malicious actor sends a large number of SYN packets all at once:

- The web servers become overwhelmed and are unable to respond. This is a network level denial of service (DoS) attack called SYN flood attack that targets network bandwidth to slow traffic.

#### Explain what the logs indicate and how that affects the server:

- The web server stops responding to legitimate employee visitor traffic. The visitors receive more error messages indicating that they cannot establish or maintain a connection to the web server. From log item number 125 on, the web server stops responding. The only items logged at that point are from the attack. As there is only one IP address attacking the web server, you can assume this is a direct DoS SYN flood attack. |

#### Reflect on the types of network intrusion attacks that you have learned about in this course so far. As a security analyst, identifying the type of network attack based on the incident is the first step to managing the attack and preventing similar attacks in the future.

Here are some questions to consider when determining what type of attack occurred:

- In this scenario, a SYN Flood Attack occured.

What do you currently understand about network attacks?

- I currently understand using tools like a packet sniffer can help a cyber security anaylst pull lots of information to determine the flow of the network and what's causing an issue by reading logs.

Which type of attack would likely result in the symptoms described in the scenario?

- A SYN Flood Attack.

What is the difference between a denial of service (DoS) and distributed denial of service (DDoS)?

- In a DoS attack, the malicious traffic originates from a single system or network.
- A DDoS attack involves multiple systems often geographically dispersed and working together to overwhelm the targe.

Why is the website taking a long time to load and reporting a connection timeout error?

By checking the logs we can see two forms error logs.

- An HTTP/1.1 504 Gateway Time-out (text/html) error message. This message is generated by a gateway server that was waiting for a response from the web server. If the web server takes too long to respond, the gateway server will send a timeout error message to the requesting browser.

- An [RST, ACK] packet, which would be sent to the requesting visitor if the [SYN, ACK] packet is not received by the web server. RST stands for reset, acknowledge. The visitor will receive a timeout error message in their browser and the connection attempt is dropped. The visitor can refresh their browser to attempt to send a new SYN request.

